Custom Unit Availability
Getting your own units to show up in the Force Generator


Description

The RAT Generator and Force Generator only pick units they have availability data for. That data
lives in the era files in data/forcegenerator (2398.xml through 3160.xml). Those files ship with
MegaMek and get overwritten every time you update, so editing them is not a good place to put your
own work.

Instead, a unit can carry its own availability inside its own unit file. Add one line to your .mtf
or .blk and the Force Generator will start rolling your unit for the factions you name, and an
update will not wipe it. You can do this on your own custom units, or on canon units to change how
they generate (see "Overriding canon units" near the end).

This only affects units you have written availability into. Every other unit behaves exactly as
before.

There are two ways to set availability: the Availability tab in MegaMekLab, or by editing the file
by hand. The tab is the easy way and is covered first. Both write the same lines to the same file,
so you can use whichever you like and switch between them.


The MegaMekLab Availability tab

MegaMekLab has an Availability tab in the unit editor, next to Quirks. It is shown by default; if
you do not use it you can hide it under Options → General, "Show the Force Generator Availability
tab". A change to that setting takes effect on the next unit you open.

Do this tab last. Build the unit and set its introduction year on the first tab first, because the
tab uses that year to decide which factions to offer.

The order that works:

1. Click "+ Add factions..." A dialog opens. It lists the factions that exist in the unit's
   introduction year, which is a short list, not all four hundred. Type in the filter box to narrow
   it. Tick the factions you want and click Add.

   - "Show minor factions" adds the smaller states to the list.
   - "Show factions from later eras" adds factions that do not exist yet at the unit's intro year
     but appear later, such as the Republic of the Sphere. Use this with a year range so the unit
     only reaches them once they exist.
   - The "Groups" box at the top holds the four umbrella keys (Everybody, All Inner Sphere, All
     Clans, All Periphery). Ticking one reaches every faction in that group at once.

2. Select a faction row and set how common the unit is with the slider. It runs 0 to 10 and says
   the number in words (rare, uncommon, common, and so on). Below it the tab names a few canon
   designs that are about as common at that number, so you have something real to compare against.

3. Set the years if you want to. "From" and "To" limit the faction to a range of years. Tick
   "never stops" to leave the end open. Leaving "From" at the unit's intro year means "from when the
   unit first exists".

   To give one faction a different availability early and late, add the SAME faction again and give
   the second row a different year range. For example, the Federated Suns common from 3050 to 3060,
   then rare from 3061 on: two rows, both Federated Suns, different ranges and numbers.

4. Tick any Mission roles that apply. Only the roles that make sense for this unit type are shown.

Two shortcuts:

- "Copy numbers from a unit..." fills the table from a canon design you pick. Start from something
  whose commonness you already know, then adjust.
- The red text at the top warns you about problems: a faction that does not exist in the unit's
  year, a year range that does not line up with the game's eras, and so on.

If the unit is a canon unit, the tab warns you in red that your numbers will REPLACE the canon
availability for the factions you list. See "Overriding canon units" below.

The tab writes the same file lines described in the rest of this document, so read on if you want to
know exactly what it produces or you would rather edit the file by hand.


Quick start (editing the file by hand)

1. Put your custom unit in your user directory. Set that directory in MegaMek under
   Client Settings → User Files Directory. This is the same folder MegaMek already uses to find
   your custom units in the unit selector.

2. Open the unit file in a text editor and add one line:

       availability:LA:6

   That says the Lyran Commonwealth fields this unit, at a fairly common rate.

3. In MegaMek, choose File → Units → Rebuild Unit Cache. You must do this, or MegaMek will keep
   using the old copy of your unit and ignore the new line.

4. Open File → Units → Reinforce from Unit Generator…, go to the RAT Generator tab, pick the
   Lyran Commonwealth and a year, and hit Generate. Your unit should be in the table.

If you edit an availability line while MegaMek is running, rebuild the cache AND restart MegaMek.
The Force Generator reads its data once at startup.


The availability number

The number after the faction code says how common the unit is. It runs from 0 to 10:

       0   none
       2   rare
       4   uncommon
       6   typical
       8   common
       10  ubiquitous

Every 2 points doubles how often the unit shows up. A unit at 8 appears twice as often as one at 6,
and four times as often as one at 4.

If you have no idea what to use, use 6. That is the value the canon data uses when the source books
give no hint either way.

A good way to pick a number is to look at a unit you already know. Open a canon era file such as
data/forcegenerator/3050.xml, find a design of similar rarity, and copy its number.


Finding faction codes

The faction code is NOT the faction's name. Look in the data/universe/factions folder. Each faction
has its own .yml file, and the code you want is the value of the "key:" line inside it.

For example, data/universe/factions/LA.yml contains:

       key: LA
       name: Lyran Commonwealth

So the code for the Lyran Commonwealth is LA.

Some codes you may want:

       LA     Lyran Commonwealth        FS     Federated Suns
       DC     Draconis Combine          CC     Capellan Confederation
       FWL    Free Worlds League        MERC   Mercenary
       CJF    Clan Jade Falcon          CDS    Clan Sea Fox
       CWE    Wolf Empire               CWIE   Clan Wolf-in-Exile

Watch out for factions that come and go. Clan Wolf (CW) does not exist in 3150 — by then it has
become the Wolf Empire (CWE) and Clan Wolf-in-Exile (CWIE). If you use a code for a faction that is
not around in the year you are generating, your unit simply will not appear.

If you get the code wrong, MegaMek writes a line to megamek.log:

       [UnitAvailability] Unit X declares availability for unknown faction 'Y'. Check
       the faction code against data/universe/factions. The entry is ignored.

Check the log first if your unit does not show up.


Covering lots of factions at once

Four codes cover whole groups, so you do not have to list forty factions by hand:

       IS          every Inner Sphere faction
       CLAN        every Clan
       Periphery   every Periphery faction
       General     everybody

A faction that you do not name directly falls back to its parent, and eventually to one of these.
So "availability:IS:4" makes your unit available to the Draconis Combine even though you never
mentioned the Combine.

You can mix them. If you name a faction directly, that value wins over the group value:

       availability:CLAN:5,CWE:7,CWIE:6

That means: every Clan can field this at 5, but the Wolf Empire fields it at 7 and Wolf-in-Exile at
6.


Several factions

Separate them with commas. There is no limit:

       availability:FS:5,LA:3


Year ranges

By default the unit is available from its introduction year (the "era:" line in the file) onward,
and never stops. If you want to control that, put a year range in front of the codes:

       availability:3067-3085 FS:7,LA:6

The unit is only available between those years. You can leave the end open:

       availability:3067- FS:7

You can leave the start open too. This runs from the unit's introduction year through 3068:

       availability:-3068 FS:2

You can separate the range from the codes with a space or a colon, whichever reads better to you.
These two lines mean the same thing:

       availability:3067-3085 FS:7,LA:6
       availability:3067-3085:FS:7,LA:6

You can use more than one availability line to change the numbers over time:

       availability:3049-3066 FS:4
       availability:3067-3085 FS:7

That is a unit that was uncommon, then became common after 3067.

Line your ranges up with the game's eras. The Force Generator works in eras, not single years, so a
change in the middle of an era is spread across it instead of happening on the exact year. If you
want a clean change, end one range the year before an era begins and start the next range on the
era's first year. The MegaMekLab Availability tab warns you when a range does not line up.


More than one variant of the same design

If you build several variants that share a chassis name, each file carries its own line. The
Force Generator handles the rest.

       Grimjack GRM-1A.mtf     availability:FS:5
       Grimjack GRM-2A.mtf     availability:FS:3
       Grimjack GRM-3C.mtf     availability:FS:1

Grimjacks as a whole show up at 5, the highest number you gave. Adding more variants does NOT make
the design more common — the variants split the same share between them. When a Grimjack does come
up, it is a 1A about 57% of the time, a 2A 29%, and a 3C 14%.

So to make one variant rarer than another, just give it a lower number.

Each variant is only offered to the factions it names. If only the GRM-1A lists LA, then a Lyran
Grimjack is always a GRM-1A.


Custom variants of an existing design

This is the most common case: you have built a new variant of a canon Mek, say a Rakshasa MDG-3D.
Your file sets the availability for YOUR variant only. The canon variants are left alone.

Two rules apply:

  1. If the faction already fields that chassis, your number cannot change how common the chassis
     is. Canon says the Federated Suns field the Rakshasa at 3, and it stays at 3 no matter what you
     write. Your variant simply joins the pool of Rakshasas the Fed Suns can get.

  2. If the faction does NOT field that chassis, your line opens it up. Canon never gives the
     Rakshasa to the Draconis Combine. Writing "availability:IS:4" in your MDG-3D means the Combine
     can now field Rakshasas — and the only one they can get is your MDG-3D, because the canon
     variants are not available to them.

You cannot use this to make a canon design more common than canon says it is. You can only add your
own variant to the mix, and hand it to factions that did not have the design before.


Overriding canon units

You can put an availability line on a canon unit and change how it generates. The line replaces the
canon numbers for the factions you list. Factions you do not list keep their canon values.

For example, if you add this to the canon Archer ARC-2R:

       availability:FS:8

then the Federated Suns field Archers as "common" instead of whatever canon says, while every other
faction keeps its canon rating. The new number wins even if it is lower than canon.

MegaMek writes a line to megamek.log each time, so you can see it happened:

       [UnitAvailability] Canon unit Archer ARC-2R is overridden by the availability in its own unit
       file. The values in the file replace the canon data for the factions it names.

Two things to keep in mind:

  - This changes canon for everyone who installs the file. If you share a unit pack that edits canon
    units, it changes how canon forces generate in their game too. That is why every override is
    logged.

  - A unit counts as canon if its name matches the official unit list, no matter which folder the
    file sits in.

If you want a new design rather than a changed canon one, give it a NEW model name. Archer ARC-9X,
not Archer ARC-2R. Then it is your own variant and the custom-variant rules in the previous section
apply, so it cannot change how common the canon Archer is for factions that already field it.


Mission roles

The Force Generator can build forces around a role, such as a fire support lance. If you want your
unit considered for those, add a mission roles line:

       missionroles:fire_support,urban

This is NOT the same as the "role:" line already in your unit file. That one (Sniper, Brawler,
Juggernaut, and so on) is used by the Princess bot to decide how to fight. The missionroles line is
used only by the Force Generator to decide what to build. You can have both.

If you leave the line out, MegaMek works out some roles from the unit itself, which is usually good
enough.

Valid values:

       recon             fire_support      sr_fire_support   spotter
       command           urban             cavalry           raider
       inf_support       anti_aircraft     anti_infantry     anti_mek
       artillery         missile_artillery mixed_artillery   incendiary
       ew_support        specops           engineer          minesweeper
       minelayer         apc               cargo             support
       civilian          training          assault           bomber
       escort            interceptor       ground_support    marine
       mountaineer       xct               paratrooper       field_gun
       mek_carrier       asf_carrier       vee_carrier       infantry_carrier
       ba_carrier        protomek_carrier  troop_carrier     tug
       pocket_warship    corvette          destroyer         frigate
       cruiser           battleship        omni              mechanized_ba
       mag_clamp


Vehicles and other .blk units

Combat vehicles, aerospace fighters, battle armor, and everything else use .blk files instead of
.mtf. The same information goes in as blocks. Put one availability entry per line:

       <availability>
       FS:5,LA:3
       3067-3085 FS:7,LA:6
       </availability>

       <missionroles>
       fire_support,urban
       </missionroles>


A complete example

A custom Mek, introduced in 3049, fielded by the Fed Suns and less often by the Lyrans, that
becomes more common after the Clan Invasion, and is good at fire support:

       chassis:Grimjack
       model:GRM-1A
       Config:Biped
       techbase:Inner Sphere
       era:3049
       rules level:2
       role:Sniper
       availability:3049-3066 FS:5,LA:3
       availability:3067- FS:7,LA:5
       missionroles:fire_support


If your unit does not show up

Work through these in order:

  1. Is your unit in your user directory, and is that directory set in Client Settings?
     If the unit does not appear in the normal unit selector, MegaMek cannot see it at all.

  2. Did you rebuild the unit cache after editing the file?
     File → Units → Rebuild Unit Cache. This catches most problems.

  3. Did you restart MegaMek after editing the file?
     The Force Generator loads its data once, at startup.

  4. Check megamek.log for a bad faction code. Every message from this feature is tagged
     [UnitAvailability], so search for that.

  5. Is it a canon unit? Availability on a canon unit REPLACES canon only for the factions you list.
     If a faction still uses its canon number, check that you actually listed it. See "Overriding
     canon units" above.

  6. Is the faction you are generating for actually around in that year?
     A unit set to CW will never appear in 3150, because Clan Wolf does not exist then.

  7. Is the year inside your availability range?

  8. Is the number too low? An availability of 1 or 2 is genuinely rare. Try setting it to 10
     temporarily. If it shows up then, the setup is fine and you just have a rare unit.

     One catch: if your unit is a variant of a canon design, and you are generating for a faction
     that ALREADY fields that design, raising the number will not make the design itself any more
     common — it only makes your variant more likely among that design's variants.


See also

       rat-generator.txt       how the RAT Generator works, and what the availability codes mean
       force-generator.txt     how the formation generator builds whole units of forces
