Random Name Generator:
Author (updated version - April 29th, 2020): Justin "Windchild" Bowen
Author (original version): Jay Lawson

This class sets up a random name generator that can then be used to generate random pilot names.
It has a couple different settings and flexible input file directory locations

Files are located in Configuration::namesDir. All files are comma spaced csv files.

The historicalEthnicity.csv file shows the correspondence between the different ethnic names
and their numeric code in the database. This file is used to initialize the name mapping, and
must be kept current for all additions. The same numeric code MUST be used across all of the
files listed below.
The numeric codes MUST be listed in exact sequential order (NO skipped numbers) for the load
to work correctly.

The name database is located in three files: maleGivenNames.csv, femaleGivenNames.csv,
and surnames.csv.

The database is divided into three fields; an Integer Ethnic Code, a String name, and an Integer weight.
The Ethnic Code is an Integer identifying the ethnic group from the historicalEthnicity.csv file the name is from
The Name is a String containing either a male/female first name or a surname, dependant on the origin file.
The Weight is an Integer that is used to set the generation chance of the name. The higher the number,
the more common the name is.

Faction files are located in factions subdirectory of {@link Configuration#namesDir()}
The faction key is the filename without the extension.
The faction files will have varying number of fields depending on how many ethnic groups exist.
The faction file does two things:
First, it identifies the relative frequency of different ethnic surnames for a faction.
Second, it identifies the correspondence between first names and surnames.
This allows, for example, for more Japanese first names regardless of surname in the Draconis
Combine. There MUST be a line in the Faction file for each ethnic group, although a weight of 0
can be used to prevent the generation of a grouping of names

This is divided into 3 + n fields, where n is the number of ethnic groups listed in historicalEthnicity.csv,
divided into the following groupings:
The Integer Ethnic Code is the first field
The String Ethnic Name is the second field. This is included for ease of reference, and
is NOT used by the generator.
The Integer Weight for generating a surname of the specified ethnicity. The higher the number,
the more common the surname is for a faction.
This is followed by n fields each containing the Integer Weight for generating a given name for
the ethnicity with Ethnic Code n. The higher the number for the weight, the more common that
given name ethnicity is in generation for the specific ethnicity of the generated surname.
